# Introduction

Welcome to the documentation for Varlog, a powerful log aggregation tool designed
to make managing logs from remote servers easier and more efficient. Varlog is
more than just a log aggregator, it's a complete log management solution that helps
you stay on top of your logs and troubleshoot issues quickly and efficiently.

One of Varlog's standout features is its efficient log-reading algorithm, which is
designed to read logs of any size quickly and efficiently. This algorithm uses a
tail-based reversed iterator chunking approach, which allows Varlog to read the most
recent output of any size log file in milliseconds.

But Varlog is more than just a log reader. It also comes with strong security
features built-in. By default, access to logs and servers is restricted, and users
must explicitly request access to them. Varlog supports JSON Web Tokens (JWT) as
its authentication method, ensuring that users are securely authenticated before
accessing logs.

Varlog also features a powerful API Sidecar, which is easy to install and run as a
daemon on any hardware. The sidecar is platform-agnostic thanks to Rust's 
cross-compilation functionality, which means that it can be used in almost any
environment. This orthogonal reuse feature doesn't impact the state of your
application, regardless of Varlogs, making it easy to integrate Varlog into your
existing infrastructure.

For users with larger networks, Varlog can also be used as a mesh network. This means
that any server can be queried and, given it's provided with the correct access,
that primary server will dispatch a retrieve request to all servers and aggregate. 
the logs. This makes it easy to access logs from any server on your network, without
the need for additional configuration or setup.

One of the key features of Varlog is its flexibility. We understand that every
organization has unique logging requirements, which is why Varlog can be easily
configured to fit your specific needs. Whether you need to store logs for compliance
purposes, integrate with other tools in your tech stack, or customize the log
aggregation process itself, Varlog has you covered.

With Varlog, you can easily access your logs and troubleshoot issues with minimal
delay, ensuring that your systems stay up and running smoothly. Whether you're a
small business owner or a large enterprise, Varlog can help you streamline your log
management process, making it easier to access and analyze your logs. With its
efficient log-reading algorithm, strong security features, and powerful API Sidecar,
Varlog is the go-to log management solution for any business.

We're proud of the work we've done to build Varlog, and we're excited to share it
with you. Whether you're a user looking to simplify your logging workflow or a
contributor interested in helping us improve Varlog even further, we hope this
documentation will provide you with the information you need to get started.
